- [Instructor] Choreographed events, as the name implies,
are much like a dance choreography.
The choreographer lays out the framework for the dance,
but each dancer does his or her part
independent of the choreographers instructions.
In an event-driven, asynchronous microservices pattern
that uses choreographed events, the same holds true.
The choreographer is played by the initializer of the event,
but each step is on its own from there on out.
Let's look at the use cases and then dig in.
There are two distinct use cases that I have seen and used
where event choreography makes sense.
The first, and probably most common,
is when you have different systems in play.
Few of us work in massive teams
that have tentacles
into the entire operations of our company.
As such, silos are often created within the systems.
When you are in this model,
but you have an event that impacts many systems,
it usually makes the most sense to fire an event
and allow the cascade to occur.
The initial event execution will trigger the remote system
to start its own event chain,
as they, in turn, may call on other systems
through events to do the same.
The risks of having any form of coupling
when teams are distinct
are often too great for productivity to warrant
any other model in these cases.
Separate teams have different ways of doing things,
different languages and, often, different processes.
Choreography makes a lot of sense in these scenarios.
The other type of choreographed event that I have used
is when you have alternative cascades.
Now, you could solve this with orchestration,
but often the spaghetti code that this produces
outweighs any of the side effects
of choreographing this event.
In this use case, each step may have results
that trigger more than one next step,
sometimes at once.
As such, the choreography sets the wheels in motion
and each step along the way does its work
and primes the pump
for any alternative steps that may follow.
It's important to note that I'm leaving out
the use of message broker in these cases,
but it isn't because it isn't there.
It's because it adds noise at this point.
The reality is that each step triggers the downstream step
via a message, not a direct call,
in a pure asynchronous microservices model.
Now, let's take a look at this in action.
Keep this model in mind
when we talk about orchestration, especially.
We start with our message broker.
We then have an event producer.
This is what choreographs the event-driven message.
Now in this case,
our choreographed event has three unique steps.
All of these components produce messages for the broker,
consume them, or both.
The message is produced by the event producer.
It is sent to the broker.
It is then read by the first step and work is done.
A new message is sent back to the broker.
That message is read by the next step and executed on.
It then creates a new message
and sends it back to the message broker.
The third step then reads the message and execute on it.
It's really important to note
that the event producer isn't involved
after the initial production of the message.
Now, of course,
this model has some benefits and some trade-offs.
The first benefit
is increased performance over orchestration.
Because you don't have a centralized orchestrator,
the steps don't funnel through a single process.
As such, you can increase performance
by offloading the steps to the message broker.
Each step can be optimized for its sole function,
which is the work to be performed.
You also, because of performance and code complexity,
have a reduced total cost of ownership.
You do, however, remove some reliability in the system.
Since there is no central place to handle error states,
there is more chance that a single event will fail to fire
everywhere that it is needed.
As such, you need to really ensure that error tracking
and DLQs exists in the message broker
to indicate need to address errors in the workflow.
Finally, because there is no centralized orchestrator,
you remove a single point for observability.
This can make determining the status of the event
that much more difficult.
You have to look everywhere
until you find the state of the current message
to really know what's going on.
In addition, because we are in an asynchronous model,
there is also the message broker and each DLQ to look at.
This increase in observability complexity
makes this model sour many people,
but none of this is impossible to deal with,
especially if you have a valid use case for using it.